2006-09-19

SSH is the Secure SHell, and is the current standard for supporting
encrypted data transfer across a network.  It can be used for terminal
access (remote login) or as the transport channel for other programs
such as svn to communicate between hosts.

SSH is based on public-key cryptography; each machine has a
public/private key pair used to establish secure communication.  The
machine key guarantees the encrypted channel, and then the normal
account password can be used to log in.

E.g., to log into the dutw782 from some arbitrary machine at
tudelft.nl:

  ssh garthz@dutw782.wbmt.tudelft.nl
  [will then ask for the garthz password and then log in]

If doing a lot of work involving two secure machines, it can be very
convenient to setup a personal key on the remote account so that no
passwords are needed.  Each user then has a secret key stored in the
~/.ssh/id_dsa and a public key in ~/.ssh/id_dsa.pub.  The public key
is transferred to the server and is used to validate the user at
login.  This is safe as long as the private key is not stolen.

To create a public/private key pair on dutw782:

  ssh-keygen -t dsa
  [ it will ask for a password, which may safely be left blank ]

This creates the key files in ~/.ssh.  The public key id_dsa.pub
should then be transferred to the remote machine and added to the text
file ~/.ssh/authorized_keys, creating it if necessary.

The user name on the local and remote computers can be different; this
is convenient, since each individual key from dutw782 can be added to
/root/.ssh/authorized_keys on the robot in order to log in as root on
the robot without a password.

The ssh package also include 'scp', the secure copy program.  To copy
a file to a remote host:

  scp <filename> <user>@<host>:<path-on-remote-host>

The path by default is relative to the user's home directory.

A concrete example:
  scp myfile garthz@dutw782.wbmt.tudelft.nl:

In this case the path is empty, so the file will be placed in the home
directory /home/garthz on dutw782.

  scp myfile garthz@dutw782.wbmt.tudelft.nl:/tmp

In this case the directory is absolute, so it will go in the
system-wide temporary directory /tmp.